Document when a data migrator is required (conformance rule + no-op convention) (#3185)
microbiomedata/nmdc-schema: CLAUDE.md

## Released migrators

> Migrator partials under `nmdc_schema/migrators/partials/migrator_from_X_to_Y/` are versioned snapshots of migrations that have already run against the production database. Do not make functional changes to them; they are the authoritative record of what ran. Explanatory comments are fine. New breaking schema changes get a new migrator, not an edit to an old one.

Reviewer: Removing statement about "the production database" because it is not always true.

```suggestion
Partial migrators residing under `nmdc_schema/migrators/partials/migrator_from_X_to_Y/` are migrators that only _partially_ migrate a database from conforming to one schema version to another. Partial migrators are invoked by a top-level migrator. Do not make functional changes to top-level migrators or partial migrators. You may make non-functional changes to them, such as modifying comments. Migrators serve as the authoritative record of how data in the NMDC Mongo database has been transformed over time. In summary: New breaking schema changes get new migrators, not changes to old ones.
```

> Migrator partials under `nmdc_schema/migrators/partials/migrator_from_X_to_Y/` are versioned snapshots of migrations that have already run against the production database. Do not make functional changes to them; they are the authoritative record of what ran. Explanatory comments are fine. New breaking schema changes get a new migrator, not an edit to an old one (and a breaking change with no production data may legitimately ship no migrator, with the reason noted in the PR).

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/microbiomedata/nmdc-schema/commit/4cda0a52c. Removed the parenthetical that a no-production-data breaking change "may legitimately ship no migrator"; it conflicted with the no-op convention. The section now states that such a change records a no-op migrator, with the reason in the PR and the migrator docstring.

> Whether a release needs a migrator at all is a conformance question, not a version-number question: if every database valid under the old schema is still valid under the new one, no migration is needed, and you record that fact with a no-op migrator rather than shipping nothing. Deletions are handled outside migrators. The authoritative explanation and the `make migrator` workflow are in [`nmdc_schema/migrators/README.md`](nmdc_schema/migrators/README.md) (which this section does not duplicate); backfilling no-op migrators for past releases that lack them is tracked in [#3180](https://github.com/microbiomedata/nmdc-schema/issues/3180).

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/microbiomedata/nmdc-schema/commit/4cda0a52c. Removed "Deletions are handled outside migrators"; it was stated as a rule with no documented source.
